README.md, before:

Bolt
====

Sophisticated, lightweight & simple CMS. Homepage: [Bolt.cm](http://bolt.cm)

Bolt is a tool for Content Management, which strives to be as simple and straightforward 
as possible. It is quick to set up, easy to configure, uses elegant templates, and above 
all: It's a joy to use. Bolt is created using modern open source libraries, and is best 
suited to build sites in HTML5 with modern markup. 

From a technical perspective: Bolt is written in PHP, and uses either SQLite, MySQL or 
PostgreSQL as a database. It's built upon the [Silex framework](http://silex.sensiolabs.org) 
together with a number of [Symfony](http://symfony.com/) [components](http://symfony.com/components) 
and [other libraries](http://docs.bolt.cm/credits). Bolt is released under the open source 
[MIT-license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php).


Build status, code quality and other badges
-------------------------------------------

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/bolt/bolt.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/bolt/bolt)
[![Scrutinizer Continuous Inspections](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bolt/bolt/badges/general.png?s=74400dd068f81fe3ba434e5952b961bb83bbea62)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bolt/bolt/)

For continously inspecting our code, we use Scrutinizer CI. You can find all runs
on our code base [here](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bolt/bolt/inspections).

[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/bolt/bolt/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/bolt/bolt?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)


Installation
------------

Detailed instructions can be found in the [Installation section in the documentation](http://docs.bolt.cm/installation).

Reporting issues
----------------
When you run into an issue, be sure to provide some details on the issue.
Please include with your report:
- the (example) input;
- the output you expected;
- the output actually produced.

This way we can reproduce your issue, turn it into a test and prevent the issue from occurring in future versions.

Unit tests
----------
For running unit tests you need [phpunit](http://www.phpunit.de/).

After installing, you can run the unit test suite by running:

    $ phpunit -c app/

This can now also be done by using app/nut:

    $ php app/nut tests:run

Extensions
----------
Since Bolt 2.0, you can install extensions directly from Bolt's interface. To browse the available extensions, visit: http://extensions.bolt.cm. 


-------

Commit message:

Added server configuration examples
Added server configuration examples for Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian and Amazon Linux

README.md, after:

Bolt
====

Sophisticated, lightweight & simple CMS. Homepage: [Bolt.cm](http://bolt.cm)

Bolt is a tool for Content Management, which strives to be as simple and straightforward 
as possible. It is quick to set up, easy to configure, uses elegant templates, and above 
all: It's a joy to use. Bolt is created using modern open source libraries, and is best 
suited to build sites in HTML5 with modern markup. 

From a technical perspective: Bolt is written in PHP, and uses either SQLite, MySQL or 
PostgreSQL as a database. It's built upon the [Silex framework](http://silex.sensiolabs.org) 
together with a number of [Symfony](http://symfony.com/) [components](http://symfony.com/components) 
and [other libraries](http://docs.bolt.cm/credits). Bolt is released under the open source 
[MIT-license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php).


Build status, code quality and other badges
-------------------------------------------

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/bolt/bolt.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/bolt/bolt)
[![Scrutinizer Continuous Inspections](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bolt/bolt/badges/general.png?s=74400dd068f81fe3ba434e5952b961bb83bbea62)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bolt/bolt/)

For continously inspecting our code, we use Scrutinizer CI. You can find all runs
on our code base [here](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bolt/bolt/inspections).

[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/bolt/bolt/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/bolt/bolt?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)


Installation
------------

Detailed instructions can be found in the [Installation section in the documentation](http://docs.bolt.cm/installation).

Try bolt in [Ubuntu](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/gosmt1r256jtb0hm31b0hqnper/deploy#test_deployment), [CentOS](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/nt1pf9254cg8mm1t4k0nv96jv5/deploy#test_deployment), [Debian](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/oj5dbkcehg9h7497fjq2lagk66/deploy#test_deployment) or [Amazon Linux](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/a382qtma5gq1928ofrsrncr70c/deploy#test_deployment).

Deployable configuration examples for [Ubuntu](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/bolt_cms_ubuntu_trusty_tahr_1404), [CentOS](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/bolt_cms_centos_7), [Debian](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/bolt_cms) and  [Amazon Linux](https://manageacloud.com/cookbook/bolt_cms_amazon_2014032)

Reporting issues
----------------
When you run into an issue, be sure to provide some details on the issue.
Please include with your report:
- the (example) input;
- the output you expected;
- the output actually produced.

This way we can reproduce your issue, turn it into a test and prevent the issue from occurring in future versions.

Unit tests
----------
For running unit tests you need [phpunit](http://www.phpunit.de/).

After installing, you can run the unit test suite by running:

    $ phpunit -c app/

This can now also be done by using app/nut:

    $ php app/nut tests:run

Extensions
----------
Since Bolt 2.0, you can install extensions directly from Bolt's interface. To browse the available extensions, visit: http://extensions.bolt.cm. 


-------
